README.md, before:

# Conduit Connector SDK

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202-blue)](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-sdk/blob/main/LICENSE.md)
[![Build](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-sdk/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-sdk/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk)

This repository contains the Go software development kit for implementing a connector for
[Conduit](https://github.com/conduitio/conduit). If you want to implement a connector in another language please
have a look at the [connector protocol](https://github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-protocol).

## Quickstart

Create a new folder and initialize a fresh go module:
```
go mod init example.com/conduit-connector-demo
```

Add the connector SDK dependency:

```
go get github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk
```

With this you can start implementing the connector. To implement a source (a connector that reads from a 3rd party
resource and sends data to Conduit) create a struct that implements
[`sdk.Source`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk#Source). To implement a destination (a
connector that receives data from Conduit and writes it to a 3rd party resource) create a struct that implements
[`sdk.Destination`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk#Destination). You can implement both to
make a connector that can be used both as a source or a destination.

Apart from the source and/or destination you should create constructor functions that return a `sdk.Source`,
`sdk.Destination` and `sdk.Specification` respectively.

The last part is the entrypoint, it needs to call `sdk.Serve` and pass in the constructor functions mentioned before. If
the connector does not implement a source or destination you should pass in `nil` instead.

```go
package main

import (
	demo "example.com/conduit-connector-demo"
	sdk "github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk"
)

func main() {
	sdk.Serve(
		demo.Specification,  // func Specification() sdk.Specification { ... }
		demo.NewSource,      // func NewSource() sdk.Source { ... }
		demo.NewDestination, // func NewDestination() sdk.Destination { ... }
	)
}
```

Now you can build the standalone connector:

```
go build path/to/main.go
```

You will get a compiled binary which Conduit can use as a connector. To run your connector as part of a Conduit pipeline you
can create it using the connectors API and specify the path to the compiled connector binary in the field `plugin`.

Here is an example request to `POST /v1/connectors` (find more about the [Conduit API](https://github.com/conduitio/conduit#api)):

```json
{
  "type": "TYPE_SOURCE",
  "plugin": "/path/to/compiled/connector/binary",
  "pipelineId": "...",
  "config": {
    "name": "my-connector",
    "settings": {
      "my-key": "my-value"
    }
  }
}
```

## Examples

For examples of simple connectors you can look at existing connectors like
[conduit-connector-generator](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-generator) or
[conduit-connector-file](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-file).

Commit message:

Readme FAQ (#11)
* Readme FAQ

* FAQ formatting

* Logging in hot path clarification

README.md, after:

# Conduit Connector SDK

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202-blue)](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-sdk/blob/main/LICENSE.md)
[![Build](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-sdk/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-sdk/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk)

This repository contains the Go software development kit for implementing a connector for
[Conduit](https://github.com/conduitio/conduit). If you want to implement a connector in another language please
have a look at the [connector protocol](https://github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-protocol).

## Quickstart

Create a new folder and initialize a fresh go module:
```
go mod init example.com/conduit-connector-demo
```

Add the connector SDK dependency:

```
go get github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk
```

With this you can start implementing the connector. To implement a source (a connector that reads from a 3rd party
resource and sends data to Conduit) create a struct that implements
[`sdk.Source`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk#Source). To implement a destination (a
connector that receives data from Conduit and writes it to a 3rd party resource) create a struct that implements
[`sdk.Destination`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk#Destination). You can implement both to
make a connector that can be used both as a source or a destination.

Apart from the source and/or destination you should create constructor functions that return a `sdk.Source`,
`sdk.Destination` and `sdk.Specification` respectively.

The last part is the entrypoint, it needs to call `sdk.Serve` and pass in the constructor functions mentioned before. If
the connector does not implement a source or destination you should pass in `nil` instead.

```go
package main

import (
	demo "example.com/conduit-connector-demo"
	sdk "github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk"
)

func main() {
	sdk.Serve(
		demo.Specification,  // func Specification() sdk.Specification { ... }
		demo.NewSource,      // func NewSource() sdk.Source { ... }
		demo.NewDestination, // func NewDestination() sdk.Destination { ... }
	)
}
```

Now you can build the standalone connector:

```
go build path/to/main.go
```

You will get a compiled binary which Conduit can use as a connector. To run your connector as part of a Conduit pipeline you
can create it using the connectors API and specify the path to the compiled connector binary in the field `plugin`.

Here is an example request to `POST /v1/connectors` (find more about the [Conduit API](https://github.com/conduitio/conduit#api)):

```json
{
  "type": "TYPE_SOURCE",
  "plugin": "/path/to/compiled/connector/binary",
  "pipelineId": "...",
  "config": {
    "name": "my-connector",
    "settings": {
      "my-key": "my-value"
    }
  }
}
```

## FAQ

**Q: Is there a standard format for errors?**

Conduit doesn't expect any specific error format. We still encourage developers to follow the conventional [error message
formatting](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/CodeReviewComments#error-strings) and include enough contextual information to make
debugging as easy as possible (e.g. stack trace, information about the value that caused the error, internal state).

**Q: Is there a standard format for logging?**

Developers should use [`sdk.Logger`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk#Logger) to retrieve a
[`*zerolog.Logger`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/rs/zerolog#Logger) instance. It can be used to emit structured and leveled
log messages that will be included in Conduit logs.

Keep in mind that logging in the hot path (e.g. reading or writing a record) can have a negative impact on performance and should
be avoided. If you _really_ want to add a log message in the hot path please use the "trace" level.

**Q: Do I need to worry about ordering?**

In case of the destination connector you do not have to worry about ordering. Conduit will supply records one by one in the order
they were produced in the source.

On the other hand, the source connector is in charge of producing records and thus dictates the order. That said, you do not have
to worry about concurrent reads, the SDK will call [`Source.Read`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/conduitio/conduit-connector-sdk#Source)
repeatedly and only in one goroutine, all you have to do is return one record at a time.

## Examples

For examples of simple connectors you can look at existing connectors like
[conduit-connector-generator](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-generator) or
[conduit-connector-file](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-file).
